documentation/prisma/migrations/README.md, before:

# Prisma Migrations Guide

This document explains how to use Prisma Migrate to manage your database schema.

## Table of Contents
1. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
2. [Creating Migrations](#creating-migrations)
3. [Applying Migrations](#applying-migrations)
4. [Rolling Back Migrations](#rolling-back-migrations)
5. [Best Practices](#best-practices)

## Getting Started

To start using Prisma Migrate, ensure you have the following:

1. A `schema.prisma` file with your data models
2. A configured database connection in the `datasource` block
3. Prisma CLI installed (`npm install -g prisma`)

## Creating Migrations

To create a new migration:

```bash
npx prisma migrate dev --name <migration_name>
```

This will:
1. Create a new migration file in the `prisma/migrations` directory
2. Apply the migration to your database
3. Generate the Prisma Client

## Applying Migrations

To apply pending migrations to your database:

```bash
npx prisma migrate deploy
```

## Rolling Back Migrations

To rollback a migration:

1. Manually revert the changes in your database
2. Delete the corresponding migration folder from `prisma/migrations`

## Best Practices

1. Always create migrations for schema changes
2. Test migrations in a development environment before applying to production
3. Keep your migration history in version control
4. Use descriptive migration names
5. Review the generated SQL before applying migrations

For more information, refer to the [Prisma Migrate Documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/prisma-migrate).

Commit message:

Update Prisma migration documentation with comprehensive rollback strategies
- Add detailed instructions for migration rollback in different environments
- Include commands for development and production scenarios
- Provide best practices and important notes for safe migration management
- Reference official Prisma Migrate documentation

documentation/prisma/migrations/README.md, after:

# Prisma Migrations Guide

This document explains how to use Prisma Migrate to manage your database schema.

## Table of Contents
1. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
2. [Creating Migrations](#creating-migrations)
3. [Applying Migrations](#applying-migrations)
4. [Rolling Back Migrations](#rolling-back-migrations)
5. [Best Practices](#best-practices)

## Getting Started

To start using Prisma Migrate, ensure you have the following:

1. A `schema.prisma` file with your data models
2. A configured database connection in the `datasource` block
3. Prisma CLI installed (`npm install -g prisma`)

## Creating Migrations

To create a new migration:

```bash
npx prisma migrate dev --name <migration_name>
```

This will:
1. Create a new migration file in the `prisma/migrations` directory
2. Apply the migration to your database
3. Generate the Prisma Client

## Applying Migrations

To apply pending migrations to your database:

```bash
npx prisma migrate deploy
```

## Rolling Back Migrations

To rollback a migration:

1. **For Development Environment**:
   ```bash
   npx prisma migrate reset
   ```
   This will:
   - Drop the database
   - Recreate it
   - Apply all migrations from scratch

2. **For Production Environment**:
   - Manually revert the changes in your database using SQL
   - Delete the corresponding migration folder from `prisma/migrations`

3. **Using Prisma Migrate**:
   - Run the following command to create a new migration that reverts the changes:
     ```bash
     npx prisma migrate dev --name revert_<migration_name>
     ```
   - This will generate a new migration file with the necessary SQL to undo the changes

Important Notes:
- Always backup your database before reverting migrations
- Test the rollback process in a development environment first
- Be cautious when reverting migrations in production

For more details, refer to the [Prisma Migrate Documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/prisma-migrate).

## Best Practices

1. Always create migrations for schema changes
2. Test migrations in a development environment before applying to production
3. Keep your migration history in version control
4. Use descriptive migration names
5. Review the generated SQL before applying migrations

For more information, refer to the [Prisma Migrate Documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/prisma-migrate).
